---
title: A3 Databases
parent: IB Computer Science 2027
layout: default
nav_order: 3
---

# A3 Databases
{: .no_toc }

{: .highlight }
For the new IB Diploma Computer Science syllabus to start teaching in August 2025, and for first examinations in May 2027.

{: .important }
Unit and lesson overviews will be gradually published as developed. 

- TOC
{:toc} 

## Lesson 1: Database fundamentals

A3.1.1 Explain the features, benefits and limitations of a relational database.

* Features: composite keys, foreign keys, primary keys, relationships, tables
* Benefits of databases: community support, concurrency control, data consistency, data integrity, data retrieval, reduced data duplication, reduced redundancy, reliable transaction processing, scalability, security features
* Limitations of databases: “big data” scalability issues, design complexity, hierarchical data handling, rigid schema, object-relational impedance mismatch, unstructured data handling

## Lesson 2: Schemas and data types

A3.2.1 Describe database schemas.

* Conceptual schema, logical schema, physical schema
* Abstract definitions of the data structure and organization of the data at different levels

A3.2.3 Outline the different data types used in relational databases.

* The importance of data type consistency
* The potential effects of choosing the wrong data type

## Lesson 3: Entity relationship diagrams

A3.2.2 Construct ERDs.

* The significance of entity relationship diagrams (ERDs) in crafting organized, efficient database designs tailored for specific applications
* The relationships between different data entities within a database
* The roles of cardinality and modality in defining relationships in ERDs

A3.2.4 Construct tables for relational databases.

* The relationship between tables using primary keys, foreign keys, composite keys and concatenated keys
* The importance of well-defined tables in ensuring data integrity

## Lesson 4: Normalisation

A3.2.5 Explain the difference between normal forms.

* First normal form (1NF), second normal form (2NF), third normal form (3NF)
* The terms atomicity, unique identification, functional dependencies, partial-key dependencies, non- key/transitive dependencies
* Normalization issues can encompass data duplication, missing data, and a range of dependency concerns, including data dependencies, composite key dependencies, transitive dependencies, and multi-valued dependencies.

A3.2.7 Evaluate the need for denormalizing databases.

* The advantages and disadvantages of normalizing and denormalizing databases
* Situations where denormalization can enhance performance, particularly in read-intensive applications
* The balance between straightforward query structures and the risk of data redundancy in denormalized schemas

## Lesson 5: Designing 3NF databases

A3.2.6 Construct a database normalized to 3NF for a range of real-world scenarios

* Examples may include library management, hospital management, e-commerce platforms, school management, employee management, inventory management, police crime reporting

## Lesson 6: Introducing SQL

A3.3.1 Outline the differences between data language types within SQL.

* Data language types must include data definition language (DDL) and data manipulation language (DML)
* SQL statements to define data structures or to manipulate data

## Lesson 7: SQL joins

A3.3.2 Construct queries between two tables in SQL.

* Queries must include joins, relational operators, filtering, pattern matching, and ordering data
* SQL commands: SELECT, DISTINCT, FROM, WHERE, BETWEEN, ORDER BY, GROUP BY, HAVING, ASC, DESC, JOIN, LIKE with % wildcard, AND, OR, NOT (note: Syntax may vary in different database systems)

## Lesson 8: SQL update & insert

A3.3.3 Explain how SQL can be used to update data in a database.

* Insert new records (INSERT INTO), modify data (UPDATE SET), remove data (DELETE)
* The performance implications of updating data in indexed columns, and how indexes might need to be rebuilt or reorganized following significant data modifications

## Lesson 9: SQL aggregate functions (HL)

A3.3.4 Construct calculations within a database using SQL’s aggregate functions. (HL only)

* Aggregate functions on grouped data to aid reporting and decision-making
* Aggregate commands: AVERAGE, COUNT, MAX, MIN, SUM

## Lesson 10: Views (HL)

A3.3.5 Describe different database views. (HL only)

* Virtual views and materialized (snapshot) views
* Hiding data complexity, data consistency, independence, performance, query simplification, read-only data or updatable data, security

## Lesson 11: Transactions (HL)

A3.3.6 Describe how transactions maintain data integrity in a database. (HL only)

* The role of atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability (ACID) to ensure reliable processing of transactions
* Transaction control language (TCL) commands: BEGIN TRANSACTION, COMMIT, ROLLBACK

## Lesson 12: Alternatives & warehouses (HL)

A3.4.1 Outline the different types of databases as approaches to storing data.

* Databases models: NoSQL, cloud, spatial, in-memory
* Examples of the use of the database model in real-world scenarios may include e-commerce platforms, geographic information systems (GIS), managed services, real-time analytics, social media platforms, SaaS.

A3.4.2 Explain the primary objectives of data warehouses in data management and business intelligence.

* The roles of append-only data, subject-oriented data, integrated data, time-variant data, non-volatile data and data optimized for query performance, to ensure efficient data storage and analysis

## Lesson 13: Data mining & distributed databases (HL)

A3.4.3 Explain the role of online analytical processing (OLAP) and data mining for business intelligence.

* Data mining techniques must include classification, clustering, regression, association rule discovery, sequential pattern discovery, anomaly detection (note: This links to “A4 Machine learning”).
* The uses of the techniques in extracting meaningful information from large data sets

A3.4.4 Describe the features of distributed databases.

* The need to maintain data consistency in a distributed database
* The role of ACID to ensure reliable processing of transactions in distributed databases
* Features of distributed databases: concurrency control, data consistency, data partitioning, data security, distribution transparency, fault tolerance, global query processing, location transparency, replication, scalability

## Lesson 13: Using SQL with Python (bonus)

## Lesson 14: Exam style questions

## Lesson 15: Assessment

