---
title: B1 Computational thinking
parent: IB Computer Science 2027
layout: default
nav_order: 3
---

# B1 Computational thinking
{: .no_toc }

{: .highlight }
For the new IB Diploma Computer Science syllabus to start teaching in August 2025, and for first examinations in May 2027.

{: .important }
Unit and lesson overviews will be gradually published as developed. 

- TOC
{:toc} 

## Lesson 1: Problem specification

B1.1.1 Construct a problem specification.

* The specification of a problem may include a problem statement, constraints and limitations, objectives and goals, input specifications, output specifications, evaluation criteria.

## Lesson 2: Computational thinking concepts & application

B1.1.2 Describe the fundamental concepts of computational thinking.

* Abstraction, algorithmic design, decomposition, pattern recognition

B1.1.3 Explain how applying computational thinking to fundamental concepts is used to approach and solve problems in computer science.

* Computational thinking does not necessarily involve programming—it is a toolkit of available techniques for problem-solving.
* Real-world examples may include software development, data analysis, machine learning, database design, network security.

## Lesson 3: Trace flowcharts

B1.1.4 Trace flowcharts for a range of programming algorithms.

* Use of standard flowchart symbols to depict processes, decisions and flows of control
* Standard flowchart symbols: Connector, Decision, Flowline, Input/Output, Process/Operation, Start/End
* Flowcharts for execution flow, to track changes in variables and to determine output

## Lesson 4: Review

