---
title: B4 Abstract data types
parent: IB Computer Science 2027
layout: default
nav_order: 3
---

# B4 Abstract data types
{: .no_toc }

{: .highlight }
For the new IB Diploma Computer Science syllabus to start teaching in August 2025, and for first examinations in May 2027.

{: .important }
Unit and lesson overviews will be gradually published as developed. 

- TOC
{:toc} 

## Lesson 1: Intro to ADT

B4.1.1 Explain the properties and purpose of ADTs in programming.

* The core principles of ADTs, including their purpose in providing a high-level description of data structures and their associated operations

## Lesson 2,3,4: Linked lists

B4.1.2 Evaluate linked lists.

* Lists must include singly, doubly, circular
* Sketch of linked lists and implementation of basic operations diagrammatically, such as insertion, deletion, traversal, search
* The advantages and disadvantages of using linked lists over other data structures like arrays, particularly in terms of memory utilization and performance

B4.1.3 Construct and apply linked lists: singly, doubly and circular.

* The basic operations on a linked list, such as insertion, deletion, traversal, search

## Lesson 5,6,7: Binary search trees

B4.1.4 Explain the structures and properties of BSTs.

* How binary search trees (BSTs) are used for data organization
* Insert, delete, traverse and searching nodes in a BST
* Sketching a BST as a tree diagram

## Lesson 8,9,10: Sets

B4.1.5 Construct and apply sets as an ADT.

* The fundamental characteristics of sets, including their unordered nature and the uniqueness of elements
* Operations: union, intersection and difference
* Code to check if an element is in a set, to add an element to a set, to remove an element, and to check whether one set is a subset/superset of another set

## Lesson 11,12,13: Hashmaps

B4.1.6 Explain the core principles of ADTs.

* High-level description of data structures and their associated operations and purpose
* The underlying mechanics of hash tables, including hashing functions, collision resolution strategies and load factors
* The underlying mechanics of sets to store and manage data
* HashMap and HashSet in Java; dict and set in Python

## Lesson 14,15,16: Programming scenarios

## Lesson 17,18,19: Exam style questions

## Lesson 20: Assessment

