---
layout: default
title: "Wordle with friends"
event_id: 3
puzzle_id: 14
hint: "A video walkthrough for learning how to solve this problem is [available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jR1WxeySDnk)."
---

Some trends refuse to die. For a brief moment in 2022 a game called [Wordle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wordle) trended as a popular word guessing game.

In 2222, during a moment of boredom during your voyage, you and your friends onboard resurrect the 200 year old classic but with your own twist. Your friends decide the 5 letter version is too easy, so decide to convert it to a 7 letter variant.

In this variant, the aim of the game remains unchanged: the player attempts to find a word in a limited number of guesses. After a guess is made, the 7 letters are colored by the following rules:

* If the letter doesn't appear in the solution, color it black (B);
* If the letter does appear in the solution, but is in the wrong position, color it yellow (Y);
* If the letter does appear in the solution, and is in the correct position, color it green (G).

A word is valid if it matches the responses of all guesses.

Your friends think that by using 7 letter words it will be too hard for you to solve, however they didn't count on you bringing your computer science skills to the table! You source a list of 7 letter words (your input data) and decide to create a program that will test guesses against it to find the answer. 

## An example

Three guesses were made that produced the following color coded responses:

```
hapless GBYYYBB
jackpot BBBBYBB
fullest YYGYYBB
```

* The result from the guess `hapless` informs you that the final word starts with the letter `h` and also contains the letters `p`, `l` and `e`. The letters `a`, and `s` do not appear in the final word.
* The result from the guess `jackpot` informs you that the final word contains the letter `p`, which we already knew so it wasn't a lot of help, except that we can also rule out the letters `j`, `a`, `c`, `k`, `o`, and `t`.
* The result from the guess `fullest` informs you that the final word contains the letter `l` in the 3rd position, and also contains the letters `f`, `u`, `l` and `e`. The letters `s` and `t` are not in the final word.

By process of elimination, the only word that matches this in the input data is `helpful`, so that would be the answer.

## Your question

The input data contains your word list. Find the only word that matches the following guesses: That is your answer.

```
keyless YYBBYYG
society YGYYYBB
phobias BBGBGBG
```

---

Wordle adaption by Edward Zhang and Paul Baumgarten. 

Input data word list derived from [github.com/dwyl/english-words](https://github.com/dwyl/english-words).
