---
layout: default
title: "Message from afar"
event_id: 3
puzzle_id: 17
hint: "A video walkthrough for learning how to solve this problem is [available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KTkzXSxd0Go)."
---

Sending messages across deep space is slow, so compression algorithms are used to minimise the number of bits required to transmit. One commonly used form of compression is known as [Huffman encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huffman_coding) where provided the sender and receiver share a common lookup reference, messages can be exchanged using fewer bits than would be required for the full byte equivalent.

For your trip, personal messages between crew and their friends and family back home are sent over a compression system that has a reduced character set. Rather than allowing every upper and lower case of the latin alphabet, or for extended/non-latin characters, there are only 40 characters used. These 40 characters are converted to binary data according to the following table...

```text
A 0010
E 0000
T 0001
I 0011
N 0100
O 0101
S 0110
H 0111
R 10000
D 10001
L 10010
U 10011
C 10100
M 10101
F 10110
B 10111
F 1100000
Y 1100001
W 1100010
G 1100011
P 1100100
B 1100101
V 1100110
K 1100111
Q 1101000
J 1101001
X 1101010
Z 1101011
0 1110000
1 1110001
2 1110010
3 1110011
4 1110100
5 1110101
6 1110110
7 1110111
8 1111000
9 1111001
_ 1111010
. 1111011
' 1111100
* 1111111
```

## An example

Consider the following hexadecimal that represents a binary message `c6ab1f512c3fff`. 

This hexadecimal represents the following binary data: `11000110101010110001111101010001001011000011111111111111`.

Read left to right through the bit stream. Since the lookup table requires a minimum of 4 bits, you can start with considering 4 bits and then extend it if you need more values to determine the decoded character.

In this case, the first four bits, `1100` are ambigous. There are 8 characters that could match, all of which use 7 bits in the lookup table, so examine the 7 bits which are `1100011` and note this decodes to the letter `G`.

Move on to the next four bits, `0101`. This converts immediately to the letter `O`.

Continuing to move through the bit stream, will decode the message as follows:

```
1100011       => G
0101          => O
0101          => O
10001         => D
1111010       => _
10001         => D
0010          => A
1100001       => Y
1111111111111 => *
```

The `*` is a special character that represents end of message, and can be ignored from the final decoded value.

Therefore, the final decoded message was `GOOD_DAY`.

## Your input data 

Your input data contains the hexadecimal representation of a message you have received. Decode it using the lookup table above to find the answer.
