---
layout: default
title: "Broken firewall"
nav_exclude: true
event_id: 5
puzzle_id: 29
---

# Broken firewall

Tickets in hand, you board your rocket flight ready for your vacation. Just as you are settling into your seat, the pilot can be heard on the speaker system. It seems they are having some issues with the onboard network and are looking for a Computer Scientist to help them out. Keen to see if you can get a free upgrade as a reward, you volunteer your services!

It seems the network router has been accidentally reset and is blocking legitimate traffic between the rocket systems and mission control, while simultaneously also allowing the onboard passengers to overwhelm the wifi. 

On inspection, you determine the router is using [Internet Protocol version 4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Protocol_version_4). You setup a data logger and record the IP headers of 1000 packets for analysis, your input data.

Speaking to the captain, you are advised that internal ship systems are in the 192.168.0.0 through to 192.168.254.254 IP address range, while passenger wifi is on the 10.0.0.0 to 10.0.254.254 IP address range. Any other addresses are external to the ship (for instance the ship control center, space traffic control, or just other internet locations for passenger web browsing).

To start with, you decide to determine the ratio of network traffic that originates or is destined for the ships internal systems, compared to that which originates or is destined for the passenger wifi.

## Example

Consider the first 5 packets you recorded the headers for.

```
45000377000000008306f39f0A000bc1d7253441
4500007f0000000005065de1c0a800b833c555ee
450002e50000000008061ef5c0a8796698721661
4500017e00000000b206e54e88c7fd4f0A00244c
45000164000000009d06d73c0A0000b7e0b143b8
```

Knowing [Internet Protocol version 4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Protocol_version_4), you know that bytes 3 and 4 are a 16 bit integer for the length of the packet, bytes 13 to 16  represent the source IP address and bytes 17 to 20 represent the destination IP address.

Looking at the first packet, you identify the length as being the hexadecimal `03 77` which is the decimal number 887. Additionally you identify the source IP address as being the bytes `0A 00 0b c1` which converts to an address of `10.0.11.193`. The destination IP address has the bytes `d7 25 34 41` which converts to `215.37.52.65`.

For the first 5 packets, the length, source IP address and destination IP addresses would convert into the following:

```
45000377000000008306f39f0A000bc1d7253441 - Length 887 bytes, source IP address 10.0.11.193, destination 215.37.52.65
4500007f0000000005065de1c0a800b833c555ee - Length 127 bytes, source IP address 192.168.0.184, destination 51.197.85.238
450002e50000000008061ef5c0a8796698721661 - Length 741 bytes, source IP address 192.168.121.102, destination 152.114.22.97
4500017e00000000b206e54e88c7fd4f0A00244c - Length 382 bytes, source IP address 136.199.253.79, destination 10.0.36.76
45000164000000009d06d73c0A0000b7e0b143b8 - Length 356 bytes, source IP address 10.0.0.183, destination 224.177.67.184
```

With that information, you determine the total bytes of network traffic for the ships internal systems as being 868 bytes, and the passenger wifi as being 1625. Therefore the ratio would be `868/1625` which would be your answer (submit in that style, don't perform the division).

## Your task

Analyse all 1000 packet headers, and calculate the total number of bytes for ships internal systems, and the total number of bytes for passenger wifi. Submit the ratio as your answer.