---
layout: default
title: "Time to play fair"
nav_exclude: true
event_id: 5
puzzle_id: 33
---

# Time to play fair

You receive a message from your sister back on Earth. Just as a couple of years ago, you still communicate with each other using a private cipher - for a little bit of nerdy fun between siblings. Recently you both agreed to switch to using a [Playfair cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Playfair_cipher), so that's what you are going to have to figure out in order to read the message. 

Since there are a few ways of implementing playfair, you remember the two of you agreed to the following stipulations:

* Replace any and all occurrences of `j` with the letter `i`.
* For words of odd length, append an `x` (unless the last letter is already `x`, in which case use a `q`).

## Example

Consider this example playfair grid, created using the encryption key of `helloworld` and the phrase to decode of `wp nehslv ewgw`.

```
h e l o w
r d a b c
f g i k m
n p q s t
u v x y z
```

* Notice that repeat occurrences of letters have been ignored when created the grid (only the first `l` and `o` appear).
* The rest of the alphabet has been added, ignoring letters used by the cipher key and the letter `j`.
* Break each word of the phrase into letter pairs: `wp`, `ne hs lv` and `ew gw`.
* `wp` appears on different rows and columns in the grid. That means `w` is replaced by the letter at the same row as `w` but the column of `p`, which is the letter `e`. Likewise, `p` is replaced by the letter at the same row as `p` but the column of `w`, which is the letter `t`.
* The pairs `ne`, `hs`, `lv`, and `gw` all appear in different rows and columns to their paired letter, so the same method applies.
* The pair `ew` appear in the same row to each other, so in that case, the `e` is replaced by the letter immediately to the left which is `h`, and the `w` is also replaced with the letter immediately to the left which is `o` (wrap around if required. For instance `h` would be decoded with `w` in the above example). A similar process applies if a pair of letters appear in the same column, you decode with the letter immediately above each letter.

The above phrase decodes to `et phonex home`. The `x` in `phonex` appears as the `x` was added to ensure all words have an even number of letters. It is one of the quirks of the playfair algorithm.

## Your task

Obtain your decryption key and message to decode from your input data. The decoded message is your answer.
